I how everyone this is my first post so
please treat me kindly all about Z 80s
and in particular this particular board
for a talking electronics computer said
80 based very simple and pretty much
just about anyone who can handle a
soldering iron could put it together
that's the complainant side Saul through
whole construction back of it
unfortunately my understanding is a
deleted item they no longer in
production but I do have the printed
circuit board pattern and most of the
patterns for pretty much everything else
it's fairly simple to build and as I say
here's one I prepared earlier it's got a
crystal oscillator instead of a
capacitor off later yeah pretty basic
we'll connect up the power and see what
happens should work just a couple of
wires off a battery there yeah got on
your 2k monitor on which is what
controls everything on the board and 2k
RAM and essentially a another ram socket
that's used as an expansion a whole lot
of bits of wires here to go for other
address lines and control lines that
I've put on there it's quite simple it's
got some software already in it that
comes as it is in the monitor it plays a
little tune its way way too fast because
of course what's going on
lost later that's enough of that you can
develop programs on it in machine code
and of course you can then put them onto
a standalone board which is coming up
there we go stand alone bored it's got a
its got a little in outboard such some
inputs outputs here a couple of relays
and a little speaker in years to make
tones and the like and that's got the
program that actually came with the
board in it which is a set of traffic
lights for model railway now of course
the all the wrong colors and again going
on the crystal oscillator so it's done
way too fast there you go but it's quite
nicely the board itself there's got I a
ports up here or output ports up here
and some simple expansion our address
lines or data lines here yeah you can
actually make quite a neat little
control system out of that some of the
other stuff that the company sells still
is a simple logic probe it's based on a
pic chip they're meant to have batteries
here but I've run a couple of wires
because the tech bullets got a spare
spot two plugs and wires in to get 5
volts so plugged it in there it's also
capable of having a secondary probe here
that works as a logic pulsar so you can
inject logic signals into a circuit to
try and test it only drawback with that
I guess is if you put something in you
want to measure what's coming out when
they're on the same board well it's got
its uses but probably not as useful as
it could be
probably better off with a separate
logic probe into separate logic pulser
but hey for a few bucks it's good fun to
build there's another talking
electronics computer that again it's got
some simply software in the rum but a
few games and essentially just
demonstrates different programming
techniques to develop different outputs
some inputs over here simple dip
switches in a pipe push buttons in a
speaker and you can move you can use the
speaker as a logic probe so we can
connect it up to different and you can
hear the different signals around the
computer and it's all been a lot of fun
since I was 14 years old and I thought I
might share in case anyone else wants to
find out some information I'm happy to
share it like I said I've got different
designs here that are all although I
published in the magazine printed out
real a driver boards so you can control
motors that's a design for LCD display
and believe it or not you can save your
data on the cassette with that that's
the design for this one there another
non-volatile Ram board power supply
board and that's one I recovered out of
a very old magazine that you can put
different roms in and choose not a
talking electronics design I think it's
a silicon chip or something like that a
long time ago and yeah that's about it
no you never make an eeprom programmer
with it John volatile RAM and there's a
few bits and pieces here a simple board
that's got driven transistors and a
couple of times and bit of logic so that
you can have a fiddle and that's about
it if anyone's interested in finding out
more information is some of the boards
you can make a standalone little unit
have a bit of a fiddle with a lot of
things so if there's any information
that I can provide I'll be happy to and
maybe I'll develop some more programs
and get to show them don't worry see you
later thank you very much